Hello and welcome back to the course of machine learning.
Today we're talking about that random force and the intuition behind it.
And specifically we're going to be talking about the rainforest applied to regression trees rather than
classification resistance but the concept is very simple and you'll find that this story is very similar
to the one for the random forest on classification trees.
All right.
So a random forest and ensemble learning ensemble learning.
So random force is a version of ensemble learning you've got other versions such as gradient boosting
and ensemble learning is when you take multiple algorithms or the same algorithm multiple times and
you put them together to make something much more powerful than the original.
And let's see how this works.
So when you pick a random Kadir points from your training said so now we're kind of going to leverage
a lot what we talked about in the session on regression entries.
So you remember there we had lots of data points and then we built a regression tree and we put the
decision tree and use that to forecast the value that would be assigned or the y value for any new element
that will be added to our data set as the average in the terminal leaves space.
So here what we're doing is we're using the whole dataset we had.
And we're only picking K data points from that training set.
Then we're going to build a decision tree associated to these K data points rather than building a decision
tree based on everything you're done I said you just building a decision tree based on those data points
that just like a subset of your arse and then you choose the number of trees that you want to build
and you repeat steps on it.
So you just keep building and building and building these streets or building a lot of regression decision
trees.
And then finally you as you use all of them to predict so far and you Darb point make each one of your
entries predict the value of y for the data point in question and assign the new data point that average
across all of the predicted y values.
So basically instead of just getting one prediction you getting lot of prediction by default.
See these algorithms are set to about 500 trees at least.
So you're getting 500 predictions for the value of y.
And then you taking the average across those.
And in that way you're not just predicting one tree be ridiculed based on a forest of trees.
And that improves the accuracy of your prediction because it is you're taking the average of many predictions
and therefore even if one is some perseverance and somehow one of the decision trees was built exactly
perfectly because the way of those data points were selected it just didn't turn out as a perfect tree
or a gray tree even if you're using it by itself.
You'd get a bad prediction because using the average it is less likely.
So you're going to get a more accurate prediction and more.
And the second thing is that there are more stable algorithms like this ensemble algorithms are more
stable because any changes in your data set could really impact one tree.
But two for them to really impact a forest of trees is much harder so therefore ensemble is much more
powerful in that way.
And what this reminds me of is the game that is often played at fairs or parties and things like that
where you have a jar and inside this jar is lots and lots of.
For instance jelly beans or it could be marbles or they could be like huge nets with balloons inside
it.
And we have one in the mall sometimes where there's lots of balloons inside and that's in the ceiling
.
And you need to guess how many balloons are and whoever guesses will get like a car can win a car.
It's a crazy prize for just guessing a number of balloons.
And although this is not an example of specifically a random forest or aggression on forest method it's
still an example of an ensemble type of method.
So the best way or one of the ways to beat that game when you need to guess the number of marbles in
a jar for instance is not to actually go in.
Yes but it's actually to get a pen and a paper and stand next to the person that's holding this jar
or that's conducting this event.
And you just stand next to them and then you wait for other people to come and guess every time somebody
guesses you just ask them as soon as they're like guests and then walking away you ask them Hey.
Because usually they write down their number and they put it in inside a like an envelope or something
and then there is the winner is announced later on.
So they don't know whether that gets right or wrong.
But regardless of that they're walking away and they're just asking hey what number did you guess.
And you just write down their number and then the next person guesses and you're right there number
down and you're right there number and you keep writing the numbers down and you just keep doing that
until you have like a substantial number of entries maybe 100 or maybe if it's a very popular contest
and people are guessing like crazy like trying to tempt or attempting the guessing then you might even
get like a couple of hundred or even if you're very determined you might get thousands of entries over
a couple of days.
And then what you do is you just averaged them out or if you don't want maybe maybe take the median
if you don't want to outliers like people just guessing random numbers like one or 5 million that you
don't want them to affect or you just take the outliers out and then you average out and you're either
average it out or you take the median and statistically speaking you have a much higher likelihood of
being closer to the truth if you take the average of people because people are natural beings and they're
kind of visual perception will be most likely normally distributed and therefore you once you hit the
middle of that normal distribution you are more likely to be on the money than any one of them.
And that's pretty cool concept that that's an example of an ensemble method where you're taking instead
of just drawing that guess by yourself or taking the guess of one individual person.
You're averaging out across multiple guesses and you're more likely to be the closest one to the truth
.
And if the prize is given not just to the person that gets a spot on but to the person I guess is closest
to the truth then you've got yourself a very powerful advantage using data size.
So if you if you have the patience and determination then try it out next time you see one of these
games and see how you go.
We'd love to hear back from you because I never have the patience to stand there and just count.
But it is it is a statistical approach to a challenge like that.
So hopefully you enjoyed this tutorial.
I'll look for you next time.
Until then in Germany learning